Notes for gapphot

gapphot2 (elliptical apertures, specified in world coordinates) seems to work.
still need to check WCS functions correctly.
also make a version which does pt spource photometry:
- fit PSF as specified in GPSFSIG
- output a chi^2 or some such fitting parameter to give a star classifier 
  (plotting that vs flx should show narrow sequence).

-----------------
Notes for imxshmap

calculate width of border from shapelet map params

read in mxm patch, starting at ix1,iy1

mask a border, at top and right except when patch is at end of image
keep idx,idy = offset for bottom left of image

-----------------
pixpsfmap
 fits a series of stars as pixellated maps.
 issue is how to shift the stars.

 could try to make a polynomial model for the stars - a bicubic spline
 with spatially varying coefficients.

specify P, P,x  P,y  P,xy at each grid point. Then the value of the
PSF anywhere is a linear function of these. Gives a large number of
paramaters to fit! But avoids having to shift the PSF stars; instead
they are simply fitted for. NR ch 3-6 gives coeffs.

Works well, PSFs look nice. Still residuals that look like centroid
issues. weighting stars by flx or swrt(flx) has little effect - so use
sqrt.

This version saved as pixpsfmap.F.shiftfirst

--change to try: centering steps for stars.

so - use input centroids to estimate b/g, beta (do not shift)
    - low-order shapelet to determine gauss-weighted centroid
    - shift star images
    - fit models.

Done. Does make a difference to the models, but for cfhtls data the
few stars with large residuals remain.

output could combine star, model and residuals in one fits file.

----to make things more efficient:
separate programme that carves out the stars and puts them in 3 d fits
file with x,y coordinates in the headers. can put background estimates
in there as well. (from a larger radius than what is saved in the fits
file).

-----------------

pixpsfxshcpts makes large list of shapelet-convolved PSF components,
for quick shear fitting later. Vary beta, use 3 orders of circular
shapelets, and for each compute the effect of S1, S2, T1, T2, and
T1S1,T1S2,T2S1,T2S2.

These can then be combined to give a local PSF and its components,
shifted on top of a source and used in chi^2 computation of different
models.  a 6th-order PSF polynomial has 28 components; each of these
is convolved with 25 betas (from 1 to 8 pixels in steps of 2**0.125),
3 circular shape orders, and 9 combinations of Ti and Si. Also include
the PSF itself, and its translations. Total number of such components
is then 18984. 73 MB file ofr 31x31 pix models. OK.

sort out bg treatment - either subtract it before, or incorporate it
properly in pixpsfmap and pix2g. Fails on step1 images right now (bg
of 20000 or so).

----------------


isotropnoise is a programme that calculates the minimum amont of noise
to add to a kernel-convolved image to make the noise covariance matrix
isotropic and identical everywhere.

A convolution with a kernel correlates pixel noise with covariance
matrix equal to the ACF of the kernel. To isotropize the noise
requires adding noise with a covariance matrix that compensates for
the anisotropy of the kernel ACF.

This programme takes the kernel map and calculates the fourier
transform of the target covariance matrix by maximizing the power in
its ACF as a function of wavenumber (it maximises over wavevector
azimuth and position in the image). A new noise map is then
smoothed with a variable kernel whose power spectrum is the difference
between the power spectrum of the target and of the original kernel.



------

noise covariance matrix estimation

routine guess_cov analyses pixel pairs to determine correlation.
subtleties:
 - read in small patches and background subtract each (essential!)
 - only use those pixel pairs with z1+z2<0, to avoid sources
 - determine median of |z1+z2| and |z1-z2| distributions = quartile
   point of background-only A=z1+z2 and B=z1-z2. Turn these into sigma
   estimates by dividing by 0.67, square to give variances. 
 - then Cov(z1,z2) = (Var(A)-Var(B))/4

guess_errors_sec modified to zap core of near-zero pixels (after
  gaussianization zero turns to very small nonzero). So once histogram
  of pixel values has been made, determine provisional sig and bg and
  then excise all within 0.001*sig of bg before making final histogram

testcov writes out the covariance estimate of a large fits
image. On gaussianized kids images this agrees well with analytic
calculation of kernel ACF.

now improved gapphot4 to estimate cov matrix if no kernel acf map is
available, and then fit a shapelet expansion to it.

  -----

fitbeta

found a bug in fitbeta that did not sort the weights of the data
points properly, which will have given rise to suboptimal fits...
Also it used weights/pix that go as 1/r^2, which gives total weight per ring that scales as 1/r. using weight/pix ~ 1/r (i.e. sig ~ sqrt(r)) gives equal weight per radial bin. Constant weight per pixel makes the weight per ring prop. to r.
